{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg10000\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset77 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\lang1033\ul\b\f0\fs32 MilkyTracker Documentation\ulnone\fs40\par
\fs48\par
\b0\fs22 Hello and welcome to this very first version of MilkyTracker a platform independent FastTracker II "clone"\par
\par
Currently supported platforms are:\par
- Windows\par
- Mac OS X\par
- PocketPC (Windows CE 3.0 and above)\par
\par
I'm also working on a pure SDL port which is supposed to run under Linux as well but it will take some more time.\par
\par
\b\fs24 Important:\b0\par
\fs22 Right now MilkyTracker is under heavy development so use it at your own risk.\par
I'm not responsible for any loss of data and or hardware damage caused by MilkyTracker.\par
Lots of functionality is still\lang1031\f1  missing.\lang1033\f0\par
\par
\ul\b\fs24 Quick Overview:\par
\ulnone\b0\fs22\par
Due to request MilkyTracker features two edit modes:\par
\par
\ul\b I. MilkyTracker edit mode:\b0\par
\ulnone The MilkyTracker mode basically a bit more "modern" because you can focus on different parts \par
(e.g. Pattern Editor, Instrument Listbox, Sample Listbox etc.) and when you're pressing\par
keys they're routed to the focused control.\par
Also keyboard shortcuts are more standard, you can select by pressing the SHIFT key\par
and navigating with the cursor keys, cut, copy & paste with using CTRL+X/C/V etc.\par
I think users who are new to tracking will find this a bit more intuitive.\par
The edit mode can be changed in the config screen (Misc. tab)\par
\par
Right now a few common keyboard shortcuts are supported in the \b MilkyTracker edit mode\b0 :\par
\par
\ul Global shortcuts:\par
\ulnone Space: \tab\tab\tab Toggle pattern editor focus (edit mode on/off)\par
Enter: \tab\tab\tab Play song from current order\par
Ctrl+Enter:\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from beginning\par
Shift+Enter:\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from cursor position\par
Shift+F9\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from beginning (same as Ctrl+Enter)\par
Shift+F10\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the first quarter of the pattern length\par
Shift+F11\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the second quarter of the pattern length\par
Shift+F12\tab\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the third quarter of the pattern length\par
ESC: \tab\tab\tab\tab Stop playing\par
Ctrl+O: \tab\tab\tab Load new song\par
Ctrl+S: \tab\tab\tab Save song\par
Ctrl+Shift+S: \tab\tab Save song under new filename\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\ul Transpose:\par
\ulnone Shift+F7: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in track down\par
Shift+F8: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in track up\par
Ctrl+F7: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in pattern down\par
Ctrl+F8: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in pattern up\par
Alt+F7: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in block down\par
Alt+F8: \tab\tab\tab Transpose current instrument in block up\par
Shift+F1: \tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in track down\par
Shift+F2: \tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in track up\par
Ctrl+F1: \tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in pattern down\par
Ctrl+F2:\tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in pattern up\par
Alt+F1: \tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in block down\par
Alt+F2: \tab\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in block up\par
\par
\ul Pattern Editor:\par
\ulnone Cursor keys: \tab\tab Move around\par
Tab: \tab\tab\tab\tab Jump to next channel\par
PgUp/PgDn: \tab\tab 16 rows up/down\par
Home/End\tab\tab\tab Guess what\par
F1-F8: \tab\tab\tab choose octave\par
F9\tab\tab\tab\tab Jump to position 0 in pattern\par
F10\tab\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the first quarter of the pattern length\par
F11\tab\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the second quarter of the pattern length\par
F12\tab\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the third quarter of the pattern length\par
Ctrl-Z: \tab\tab\tab Undo\par
Ctrl-Y: \tab\tab\tab Redo\par
Ctrl-X: \tab\tab\tab Cut\par
Ctrl-V: \tab\tab\tab Paste\par
Ctrl+A: \tab\tab\tab Select entire pattern\par
Shift-M: \tab\tab\tab Mute current selected channel\par
Ctrl+Shift-M: \tab\tab Invert current muting\par
Ctrl+I: \tab\tab\tab Interpolate values\par
Delete: \tab\tab\tab Delete note/instrument/volume/effect/operand\par
Sh+Del: \tab\tab\tab Delete note, volume and effect at cursor.\par
Ctrl+Del: \tab\tab\tab Delete volume and effect at cursor.\par
Alt+Delete: \tab\tab\tab Delete effect at cursor.\par
Insert: \tab\tab\tab Insert a new note slot at current cursor position\par
Shift-Insert: \tab\tab Insert an entire row at current cursor position\par
Backspace: \tab\tab\tab Delete note slot before current cursor position\par
Shift-Backspace: \tab\tab Delete entire row of notes before current cursor position\par
\par
Try to play around with pressing other keys to find out what notes they're mapped to =)\par
\par
\ul\b II. FastTracker 2 edit mode:\b0\par
\ulnone The FT2 edit mode is for the die-hard FT2 user and is propably not so intuitive to use,\par
but I think FT2 users don't care about that.\par
\b Please note\b0  that not all FT2 shortcuts are implemented yet and some may differ because\par
of various reasons.\par
\b Also note \b0 that this edit mode is not working very well on a PocketPC because of limited\par
input devices. \par
\par
Right now the following FT2 keyboard shortcuts are supported in the \b FastTracker edit mode\b0 :\par
(copied straight out of FT2 manual ;))\par
\par
\pard\b 5.1 Cursor moves:\par
\par
\b0 PageUp \tab Jump 16-lines upwards.\par
PageDown \tab Jump 16-lines downwards.\par
Home\tab\tab Jump to line 0.\par
End  \tab\tab Jump to last line.\par
Tab  \tab\tab Jump to next track.\par
Sh+Tab  \tab Jump to previous track.\par
Alt+Q..I \tab Jump to track (0..7) MOD N-Channels.\par
Alt+A..K \tab Jump to track (8..15) MOD N-Channels.\par
\b\par
5.2 Cut/Copy/Paste:\par
\par
\b0 Del\tab\tab Delete note or volume column at cursor.\par
Sh+Del\tab\tab Delete note, volume and effect at cursor.\par
Ctrl+Del\tab Delete volume and effect at cursor.\par
Alt+Delete \tab Delete effect at cursor.\par
Ins  \tab\tab Insert note at cursor.\par
Sh+Ins  \tab Insert line at cursor.\par
Backsp. \tab Delete previous note.\par
Sh+Backsp\tab Delete previous line.\par
Alt+Cursor\tab Mark block.\par
Sh+F3 \tab\tab Cut track.\par
Sh+F4 \tab\tab Copy track.\par
Sh+F5 \tab\tab Paste track.\par
Ctrl+F3 \tab Cut pattern.\par
Ctrl+F4 \tab Copy pattern.\par
Ctrl+F5 \tab Paste pattern.\par
Alt+F3\tab\tab Cut block.\par
Alt+F4 \tab\tab Copy block (yes even under windows =)).\par
Alt+F5 \tab\tab Paste block.\par
\b\par
Additional shortcuts (not FT2):\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1420\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b0\i Ctrl-Alt+Z \tab\tab Undo\par
Ctrl-Alt+Y \tab\tab Redo\par
Ctrl+Alt+A \tab\tab Select entire pattern\par
Shift-M \tab\tab Mute current selected channel\par
Ctrl+Shift-M \tab Invert current muting\par
Shift+I \tab\tab Interpolate values\par
\pard\b\i0\par
5.3 Miscellaneous:\par
\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1420\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\b0 Right Ctrl \tab\tab Play song from current order (\b only works under Windows\b0 )\par
\pard\i Enter: \tab\tab Play song from current order\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1420\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\i0 Right Alt \tab\tab Play current pattern from beginning (\b only works under Windows\b0 )\i\par
Ctrl+Enter:\tab\tab Play current pattern from beginning\par
\pard\tx565\tx1420\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802 Shift+Enter:\tab Play current pattern from cursor position\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1420\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\i0 Space\tab\tab\tab Stop/Edit\par
\i ESC\tab\tab\tab Stop all playing\par
\i0 F1..F8 \tab\tab Select octave\par
F9\tab\tab\tab Jump to position 0 in pattern\par
F10\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the first quarter of the pattern length\par
F11\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the second quarter of the pattern length\par
F12\tab\tab\tab Jump to position after the third quarter of the pattern length\par
\i Shift+F9\tab\tab Play current pattern from beginning (same as Ctrl+Enter/Right Alt)\par
Shift+F10\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the first quarter of the pattern length\par
Shift+F11\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the second quarter of the pattern length\par
Shift+F12\tab\tab Play current pattern from position after the third quarter of the pattern length\i0\par
Caps-Lock\tab\tab Enter Keyoff-"note" (\b only works under Windows\b0 )\par
Sh+Left \tab\tab Increase song position\par
Sh+Right \tab\tab Decrease song position\par
Ctrl+Left \tab\tab Increase pattern number\par
Ctrl+Right \tab\tab Decrease pattern number\par
\pard\b\par
\pard\fi-282\li282 Window switching:\par
\pard\par
\b0 Ctrl+\par
A \tab\tab Advanced edit.\par
C \tab\tab Configuration.\par
D \tab\tab Disk operations.\par
I \tab\tab Instrument editor.\par
S \tab\tab Sample editor.\par
T \tab\tab Transpose.\par
X \tab\tab Main screen. (almost alt+X)\par
Z \tab\tab Show/Hide scopes\par
R\tab\tab Disk recorder\par
\b\par
5.5 Instrument select (Numeric keypad):\par
\par
\b0 Sh+Up \tab\tab Select previous instrument\par
Sh+Down \tab Select next instrument\par
Sh+\lang1031\f1 Alt+\lang1033\f0 Up \tab Select previous \lang1031\f1 sample\lang1033\f0\par
Sh+\lang1031\f1 Alt+\lang1033\f0 Down \tab Select next \lang1031\f1 sample\lang1033\f0\par
\par
You can also quick-type the hex-number of the instrument you want to select\par
on the numeric keypad, the layout is like this:\par
\pard\fi-400\li400\par
\pard\tx560 0..9 \tab = Digit 0..9\b\par
\b0\par
PC Keyboard:\par
/ \tab = Digit A\par
* \tab = Digit B\par
- \tab = Digit C\par
+ \tab = Digit D\par
Enter = Digit E\par
, \tab = Digit F\par
\par
Mac Keyboard:\par
= \tab = Digit A\par
/ \tab = Digit B\par
* \tab = Digit C\par
- \tab = Digit D\par
\lang1031\f1 +\lang1033\f0  \lang1031\f1\tab\lang1033\f0 = Digit E\par
\lang1031\f1 Enter\lang1033\f0  \tab = Digit F\par
\b\par
\pard\par
5.6 Command/Volume macro:\par
\b0\par
Alt+1..0 \tab Write command/volume at cursor.\par
Sh+Alt+1..0 \tab Read command/volume at cursor.\par
\par
\b 5.7 Transpose:\par
\par
\b0 Sh+F7 \tab\tab Transpose current instrument in track down\par
Sh+F8 \tab\tab Transpose current instrument in track up\par
Ctrl+F7 \tab Transpose current instrument in pattern down\par
Ctrl+F8 \tab Transpose current instrument in pattern up\par
Alt+F7 \tab\tab Transpose current instrument in block down\par
Alt+F8 \tab\tab Transpose current instrument in block up\par
Sh+F1 \tab\tab Transpose all instruments in track down\par
Sh+F2 \tab\tab Transpose all instruments in track up\par
Ctrl+F1 \tab Transpose all instruments in pattern down\par
Ctrl+F2\tab\tab Transpose all instruments in pattern up\par
Alt+F1 \tab\tab Transpose all instruments in block down\par
Alt+F2 \tab\tab Transpose all instruments in block up.\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
\pard\b 5.8 Other:\par
\par
\b0 Ctrl+V \tab\tab Volume scale pattern\par
Alt+V \tab\tab Volume scale block\par
Shift+V \tab Volume scale track\par
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\par
(\b please note that under Mac OS X the "Apple" key is used instead of the Ctrl key\b0 )\par
\par
If MilkyTracker crashes or does something really stupid I'd really like to hear from you\par
and it would be even cooler if you can reproduce the problem as closely as possible.\par
\par
\b\fs24 Known issues:\b0\par
\fs22 Some things work different in MilkyTracker and some dialogs may look different ;)\par
\par
Okay that's all for now, a more detailed explanations of all the functions will follow later.\par
(In the meantime why don't you check out the official FastTracker 2 document?)\par
\par
\b\fs24 Donate:\b0\fs22\par
If you like MilkyTracker and you're looking for a way to support me developing it, \par
why don't you donate something using PayPal?\par
My PayPal account: \b donate@milkytracker.net\b0\par
Any donation will be appreciated and it keeps me going. Also, when donating, your\par
feature requests will always be on top of my list, isn't that a neat offer? \par
\par
Don't worry MilkyTracker will always be free because I really enjoy working on it,\par
but you should remember that FT2 wasn't real freeware either \par
\par
Contact me:\par
\b support@milkytracker.net\par
\b0 or visit\par
\b http://www.milkytracker.net\par
\par
Thanks to anyone who has contributed:\par
Kenet (for the amazing logos), Kmuland (for always supporting me), \par
raina (for the nice icons), Svenzzon (for his nice example tune) \par
\lang1031\f1 the entire Titan crew for supporting my work \lang1033\f0 and everybody else \par
who dropped me a letter...\par
\b0\par
\pard Have fun...\fs20\par
}
 